--- PAGE 11 ---

| TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                                       |   PAGE |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| NOTE 17. Derivatives                                                                                    |     77 |
| NOTE 18. Fair Value Measurements                                                                        |     81 |
| NOTE 19. Commitments and Contingencies                                                                  |     83 |
| NOTE 20. Leases                                                                                         |    105 |
| NOTE 21. Stock-Based Compensation                                                                       |    106 |
| NOTE 22. Business Segments and Geographic Information                                                   |    109 |
| NOTE 23. Quarterly Data (Unaudited)                                                                     |    113 |
| Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            |    114 |
| Item 9A. Controls and Procedures                                                                        |    114 |
| Item 9B. Other Information                                                                              |    114 |
| Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections                            |    114 |
| PART III                                                                                                |    115 |
| Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                         |    115 |
| Item 11. Executive Compensation                                                                         |    115 |
| Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters |    116 |
| Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence                      |    116 |
| Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services                                                         |    116 |
| PART IV                                                                                                 |    117 |
| Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules                                                        |    117 |
| Item 16. Form 10-K Summary                                                                              |    121 |

--- PAGE 14 ---

## Resources

Human Capital: On December 31, 2024, the Company employed approximately 61,500 people (full-time equivalents), with approximately 22,500 employed in the United States and 39,000 employed internationally. The ability to recruit, retain, develop, protect, and fairly compensate its global workforce are enablers of 3M's success. This includes four general categories of focus: Health and Safety; Development; Inclusion; and Compensation and Benefits.

## Health and Safety:

3M is committed to the safety, health, and well-being of its employees. The Company continuously evaluates opportunities to raise safety and health standards, training site leaders and conducting site visits to identify and manage environmental health and safety risks; evaluating compliance with regulatory requirements and 3M policy; and maintaining a global security operation for the protection of facilities and people on 3M sites. 3M also promotes a culture of health and wellbeing through disease prevention programs, on-site clinical services, employee assistance programs, and comprehensive health care benefits.

## Development:

Developing employees contributes to growing 3M's business. 3M maintains talent and succession planning processes, including regular review by the Company's chief executive officer (CEO) and reporting up through the Board of Directors. The Company provides leadership development experiences through job-based or project-based assignments, assessment and coaching, and targeted skill-development where leaders are given the opportunity to learn, apply, and share their skills. 3M also provides opportunities for all employees to learn, in addition to regular coaching and support from their supervisor. With the Company's global online employee learning platform, employees are able to access unique, just-intime development resources in over 15 languages to support their career aspirations and advance their skills.

## Inclusion:

3M believes that bringing together people from diverse perspectives, backgrounds, and identities sparks even greater innovation, and helps 3M serve its customers. 3M maintains gender pay parity globally and is committed to continuing these efforts. Additionally, 3M focuses on attracting top talent from a variety of backgrounds and geographies and providing equal opportunities for advancement. 3M supports these values with an internal CEO Inclusion Council, a forum led by senior management to advance inclusion. Since 2020, the Company has invested $50 million to address opportunity gaps through workforce development initiatives in the communities in which its employees live and 3M business operates.

## Compensation and Benefits :

3M invests in a professional and flexible work environment that promotes innovation, well-being, and rewards performance. 3M's total compensation for employees includes a variety of components that support sustainable employment and the ability to build a strong financial future, including competitive market-based pay and comprehensive benefits. In addition to earning a base salary, eligible employees are compensated for their contributions to the Company's goals with both short-term cash incentives and long-term equity-based incentives. Through its global pay philosophy, principles and consistent implementation, 3M is committed to providing fair and equitable pay for employees. Eligible fulltime employees in the United States also have access to medical, dental, and vision plans; savings and retirement plans; a 3M employee stock purchase plan; and other resources. Some of these benefits can also be available to regular part-time employees who work at least 20 hours a week. Programs and benefits differ internationally for a variety of reasons, such as local legal requirements, market practices, and negotiations with works councils, trade unions, and other employee representative bodies.

Raw Materials : In 2024, global supply chains stabilized, with disruptions driven from more isolated factors. Overall, on a continuing operations basis, 3M experienced year-over-year market inflation in 2024 driven by key feedstocks and labor. Market price risks were partially mitigated via negotiated supply contracts and leveraging scale across supply base.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses : The Company's products are sold around the world under various trademarks. The Company also owns, or holds licenses to use, numerous U.S. and foreign patents. The Company's research and development activities generate a steady stream of inventions that are covered by new patents or trade secrets. Patents applicable to specific products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or patent grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.

The Company believes that its trademarks, patents, and trade secrets provide an important competitive advantage in many of its businesses. In general, no single patent or group of related patents is in itself essential to the Company as a whole or to any of the Company's business segments.

--- PAGE 15 ---

Government Regulation and Environmental Law Compliance : The Company's business operations are subject to various governmental regulations in the U.S. and internationally, including, among others, those related to product liability; securities and corporate governance; antitrust and competition; intellectual property; environmental, health, and safety; tax; the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws; international import and export requirements and trade sanctions compliance; laws and regulations that apply to industries served by the Company, including the False Claims Act, anti-kickback laws, and the Sunshine Act; and other matters.

3M's manufacturing operations are affected by national, state and local environmental laws and regulations around the world. The Company places consistent emphasis on environmental responsibility. 3M has made, and plans to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 3M is also involved in remediation actions relating to environmental matters from past operations at certain sites (refer to 'Environmental Matters and Litigation' in Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies).

Environmental expenditures relating to existing conditions caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues are expensed. Reserves for liabilities for anticipated remediation costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when they are probable and reasonably estimable, generally no later than the completion of feasibility studies, the Company's commitment to a plan of action, or approval by regulatory agencies. Environmental expenditures for capital projects that contribute to current or future operations generally are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.

In 2024, 3M expended approximately $170 million (excluding activity related to the former Solventum health care business) on capital projects for environmental purposes as defined below. Capital projects for environmental purposes include waste reduction and pollution control programs such as water usage reduction and water quality improvement equipment, scrubbers, containment structures, solvent recovery units and thermal oxidizers. Capital expenditures for similar projects are presently expected to approach approximately $340 million for 2025 and 2026 in aggregate.

Although an estimate of certain nearer-term capital expenditures is provided above, 3M cannot predict with certainty whether future costs of compliance with government regulations (including environmental regulations) will have a material effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

--- PAGE 18 ---

Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events and trends that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those reflected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors. Important information as to these factors can be found in this document, including, among others, 'Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations' under the headings of 'Overview,' 'Financial Condition and Liquidity' and annually in 'Critical Accounting Estimates.' Discussion of these factors is incorporated by reference from Part I, Item 1A, 'Risk Factors,' of this document, and should be considered an integral part of Part II, Item 7, 'Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.' For additional information concerning factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements, see our reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC from time to time.

## Item 1A. Risk Factors

Provided below is a cautionary discussion of what we believe to be the most important risk factors applicable to the Company. Discussion of these factors is incorporated by reference into and considered an integral part of Part II, Item 7, 'Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.'

## Risks Related to the Global Economy and External Conditions

- * The Company's results are impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic, political, regulatory, international trade, geopolitical, and other external conditions.

During 2024, the Company derived approximately 56 percent of its revenues from outside the United States. Accordingly, the Company's operations and the execution of its business strategies and plans are subject to global competition and economic and geopolitical risks that are beyond its control, such as, among other things, disruptions in financial markets, economic downturns, military conflicts, terrorism, public health emergencies, political changes and trends such as protectionism, economic nationalism resulting in government actions impacting international trade agreements or imposing trade restrictions such as tariffs and retaliatory counter measures, and government deficit reduction and other austerity measures in locations or industries in which the Company operates. Further escalation of specific trade tensions, including those between the U.S. and China, or more broadly in global trade conflict, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and operations around the world. The Company's business is also impacted by social, political, and labor conditions in locations in which the Company or its suppliers or customers operate; adverse changes in the availability and cost of capital; monetary policy; interest rates; inflation; recession; commodity prices; currency volatility or exchange control; ability to expatriate earnings; and other laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company or its suppliers or customers operate. For example, changes in local economic condition or outlooks, such as lower economic growth rates in China, Europe, or other key markets, impact the demand or profitability of the Company's products.

The global economy has been impacted by geopolitical tensions. The U.S. and other governments have imposed export controls on certain products and financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in certain conflict zones. These geopolitical tensions could result in, among other things, cyberattacks, supply chain disruptions, higher energy and other commodity costs, lower consumer demand, and changes to foreign exchange rates and financial markets, any of which may have a material adverse effect the Company's business and supply chain.

Climate change and severe weather events, including related environmental and social regulations, as well as natural disasters, may negatively impact the Company or its customers and suppliers, in terms of availability and cost of natural resources, sources and supply of energy, product demand and manufacturing, compliance costs, and the health and well-being of individuals and communities in which we or our suppliers or customers operate.

* Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates may affect the Company's ability to realize projected growth rates in its sales and earnings.

The Company's financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, as noted above, the Company derives a significant percentage of its revenues from outside the United States. As a result, the Company's results of operations and its ability to realize projected growth rates in sales and earnings could be materially adversely impacted if the U.S. dollar strengthens significantly against foreign currencies, and the Company's results of operations may experience volatility related to changes in exchange rates. For a discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the Company, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

## Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Proceedings

- * The Company faces liabilities related to certain fluorochemicals, which could have a material adverse effect on our results.

As previously reported, governments in the United States and internationally have increasingly been regulating a broad group of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances produced by the Company, collectively known as 'PFAS,' including some presently or historically produced by the Company.

--- PAGE 19 ---

The PFAS group of substances contains several categories and classes of durable chemicals and materials with properties that include oil, water, temperature, chemical, and fire resistance, as well as electrical insulating properties. The strength of the carbon-fluorine bond also means that these compounds do not easily degrade. These characteristics have made PFAS substances critical to the manufacture of a wide range of products, including electronic devices such as cell phones, tablets, and semi-conductors. They are also used to help prevent contamination of medical products like surgical gowns and drapes. Commercial aircraft and low-emissions vehicles also rely on PFAS technology. 3M is just one of a number of companies that manufacture PFAS compounds.

As science and technology evolve and advance, and in response to evolving knowledge and the understanding that certain PFAS compounds had the potential to build up over time, 3M announced in 2000 that it would voluntarily phase out production of two PFAS substances, perfluorooctanoate (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) globally as a precautionary measure. Most of the phase out activities in the United States were completed by the end of 2002. The phase out included materials used to produce certain repellents and surfactant products, and products including Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) and certain coatings for food packaging, for example. Following the phase out of PFOA and PFOS production, the Company has continued to review, control, or eliminate the presence of certain PFAS in purchased materials, as intended substances in products, or as byproducts of some of 3M's current manufacturing processes, products, and waste streams.

3M announced in December 2022 it will take two actions with respect to PFAS (2022 PFAS Announcement): exiting all PFAS manufacturing by the end of 2025, and working to discontinue the use of PFAS across its product portfolio by the end of 2025. 3M is progressing toward the exit of all PFAS manufacturing by the end of 2025. The Company continues to discuss its PFAS manufacturing exit, and related issues involving the disposition of manufacturing assets, with customers, government authorities, and other stakeholders, and the Company remains focused on completing the exit in a timely and orderly fashion. The Company recognized a $0.8 billion pre-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 2022 associated with the 2022 PFAS Announcement related to asset impairments, and will incur additional expenses in connection with the 2022 PFAS Announcement. In addition, the 2022 PFAS Announcement involves risks, including: the actual timing, costs, and financial impact of such exit; the Company's ability to complete such exit on the anticipated timing or at all; potential governmental or regulatory actions relating to PFAS or the Company's exit plans; the Company's ability to identify and manufacture, or procure from third parties if possible, acceptable substitutes for PFAS-containing materials in 3M's supply chain; the possibility that such non-PFAS options are not available or that such substitutes may not achieve the anticipated or desired commercial, financial or operational results; potential litigation relating to the Company's exit plans or to any products that include thirdparty manufactured materials containing PFAS that are incorporated into the products the Company sells; and the possibility that the planned exit will involve greater costs than anticipated, may not be feasible, may not be feasible on the timeframe initially predicted, or may otherwise have negative impacts on the Company's relationships with its customers and other parties.

As stated above, 3M is progressing toward the exit of all PFAS manufacturing by the end of 2025. 3M is also working to discontinue the use of PFAS across its product portfolio by the end of 2025 and has made progress in eliminating the use of PFAS across its product portfolio in a variety of applications. With respect to PFAS-containing products not manufactured by 3M in the Company's supply chains, the Company continues to evaluate the availability and feasibility of third-party products that do not contain PFAS. Depending on the availability and feasibility of such third-party products not containing PFAS, the Company continues to evaluate circumstances in which the use of PFAS-containing products manufactured by third parties and used in certain applications in 3M's product portfolios, such as lithium ion batteries, printed circuit boards and certain seals and gaskets, all widely used in commerce across a variety of industries, and in some cases required by regulatory or industry standards, may or are expected to, depending on applications, continue beyond 2025. In other cases, sales of products manufactured before the end of 2025, regulatory approval, or customer re-certification or re-qualification of substitutes or replacements to eliminate the use of PFAS manufactured by third parties may not be completed, or, depending on circumstances, are not expected to be completed, by the end of 2025. With respect to PFAS-containing products manufactured by third parties, the Company intends to continue to evaluate beyond the end of 2025 the adoption of third-party products that do not contain PFAS to the extent such products are available and such adoption is feasible.

3M has noticed several global regulatory trends related to PFAS, including decreasing emission standards and limits set for the presence of certain PFAS in various media, and the inclusion in regulatory activity of a broadening group of PFAS. Developments in these and other global regulatory trends may require additional actions by 3M, including investigation, remediation and compliance actions, and may result in additional litigation and enforcement action-related costs.

--- PAGE 20 ---

Under certain environmental laws, including the United States Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ('CERCLA') and similar state laws, the Company may be jointly and severally liable, sometimes with other potentially responsible parties, for the costs of investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at current or former facilities and at off-site locations where substances designated as 'hazardous substances' have been released or disposed of. The Company has identified numerous locations, many of which are in the United States, at which it may have some liability for remediation of contamination under applicable environmental laws. As a result of the CERCLA designation of PFOA and PFOS as hazardous substances in 2024, and to the extent EPA finalizes additional proposals related to PFAS, 3M may be required to undertake additional investigative or remediation activities, including where 3M conducts operations or where 3M has disposed of waste. 3M may also face additional litigation from other entities that have liability under these laws for claims seeking contribution for clean-up costs other entities might have.

The Company has been voluntarily cooperating with various local, state, federal (primarily the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)), and international agencies in their reviews of the environmental and health effects of certain PFAS produced by the Company. 3M currently is defending lawsuits concerning various PFAS-related products and chemistries, and is subject to unasserted and asserted claims and governmental regulatory proceedings and inquiries related to the production and use of PFAS in a variety of jurisdictions, as discussed in Note 19, 'Commitments and Contingencies,' within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 3M has seen increased public and private lawsuits being filed on behalf of states, counties, cities, and utilities alleging, among other things, harm to the general public and damages to natural resources, some of which are pending in the AFFF multi-district litigation and some of which are pending in other jurisdictions. Various factors or developments in these and other disclosed actions could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on 3M. For example, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $897 million, inclusive of legal fees and other related obligations, in the first quarter of 2018 with respect to the settlement of a matter brought by the State of Minnesota involving the presence of PFAS in the groundwater, surface water, fish or other aquatic life, and sediments in the state. In addition, as described in greater detail in Note 19, 'Commitments and Contingencies,' within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in June 2023, the Company entered into a class-action settlement ('PWS Settlement') to resolve a wide range of drinking water claims by public water suppliers in the United States regarding PFAS. The court approved that settlement in March 2024. 3M will pay $10.5 billion to $12.5 billion in total to resolve the claims released by the PWS Settlement, with payments to be made from 2024 through 2036, in exchange for a release of certain claims, as described further in Note 19. Unexpected events related to the PWS Settlement, including the potential impact of the PWS Settlement on other PFAS-related matters, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position. In addition, as previously disclosed, in connection with the separation of Solventum, the Company agreed to retain liabilities related to PFAS for certain products sold by the Company's health care businesses prior to the separation and by Solventum for a limited period of time following the separation.

Governmental inquiries, lawsuits, or laws and regulations involving PFAS could lead to the Company incurring liability for damages or other costs, civil or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, or other remedies, including orders to conduct remediation, as well as restrictions on or added costs for business operations going forward, including in the form of restrictions on discharges at manufacturing facilities, requiring the installation of control technologies, suspension or shutdown of facility operations, switching costs in seeking alternative sources of supply, potential customer damage claims due to supply disruptions or otherwise, restoration of and/or compensation for damages to natural resources, personal injury and property damages, and reporting requirements or bans on PFAS and PFAS-containing products manufactured by the Company. The Company may also record asset retirement obligations, some of which may be material, depending in part on how the Company manages related assets in connection with these activities. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position.

* The Company is subject to risks related to international, federal, state, and local treaties, laws, and regulations, as well as compliance risks related to legal or regulatory requirements, contract requirements, policies and practices, or other matters that require or encourage the Company or its suppliers, vendors, or channel partners to conduct business in a certain way. The outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings related to compliance with these treaties, laws, regulations, and requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, ability to execute its strategy and its results of operations.

The Company operates globally, including in some jurisdictions that pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues, and is subject to risks related to international, federal, state, and local treaties, laws, and regulations, including those involving product liability; securities and corporate governance; antitrust and competition; intellectual property; environmental, health, and safety; tax; the FCPA and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws; international import and export requirements and trade sanctions compliance; laws and regulations that apply to industries served by the Company, including the False Claims Act, anti-kickback laws, and the Sunshine Act; and other matters. The Company is also subject to compliance risks related to legal or regulatory requirements, contract requirements, policies and practices, or other matters that require or encourage the Company and its suppliers, vendors, or channel parties, to conduct business in a certain way. Legal compliance risks also include third-party risks where the Company's suppliers, vendors, or channel partners, or trade associations to which the Company belongs, have business practices that are inconsistent with 3M's Supplier Responsibility Code, 3M performance requirements, or with legal requirements.

--- PAGE 21 ---

The Company or its third-party vendors may develop or incorporate artificial intelligence technology in certain business processes, services or products. The development and use of artificial intelligence may present risks to the Company's business. Also, the rapidly evolving legal and regulatory environment relating to artificial intelligence, in the United States and internationally, could impact the Company's implementation of artificial intelligence technology, and increase compliance costs and the risk of non-compliance. While the Company will seek to develop and use artificial intelligence responsibly, and will attempt to identify and mitigate ethical, privacy, legal or other issues presented by its use, there can be no assurance that the Company will be fully successful in doing so, and may be subject to data breaches, allegations of unauthorized access to, or use of, third party data, information, or intellectual property rights, or other risks, which may lead to financial losses, legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational damage.

The failure to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations could result in significant civil fines and penalties or criminal sanctions against the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. These laws and regulations prohibit corrupt payments by the Company's employees, suppliers, vendors, channel partners or agents. The Company is also required to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal controls under the FCPA's accounting provisions. From time to time, the Company receives reports internally and externally, via various reporting channels deployed by its Ethics and Compliance function or otherwise (such as shareholder communications), about business and other activities that raise compliance or other legal or litigation issues. The Company has in the past, and in the future could be, required to investigate such reports and cooperate with U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities in such investigations, audit, monitor compliance or alter its practices as part of such investigations, and the Company has in the past and may in the future be required to pay fines or penalties related to its practices. While the Company maintains and implements U.S. and international compliance programs, including policies and procedures, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of noncompliance, the Company's employees, suppliers, vendors, channel partners or agents may violate such policies and procedures and engage in practices that contravene relevant laws and regulations.

The Company's results of operations could experience a material adverse effect if the costs to comply with these evolving treaties, laws, regulations, and requirements are greater than projected by the Company. In addition, the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings related to compliance with these treaties, laws, regulations, and requirements are difficult to reliably predict, may differ from the Company's expectations, and have resulted and may in the future result in, one or more of the following: criminal or civil sanctions, including fines; limitations on the extent to which the Company can conduct business; employee and business partner terminations due to policy violations; and private rights of action that result in litigation exposure, including expenses and costs incurred in connection with settlement or court proceedings, for the Company. In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of these acts is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Although the Company maintains general liability insurance to mitigate monetary exposure, the amount of the liability that may result from certain of these risks is unlikely to be fully covered by applicable insurance, and to the extent covered, will exceed the applicable limits of such insurance. Various factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables, or make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or cash flows or its consolidated financial position. In addition, negative publicity related to the matters noted above or other matters involving the Company may negatively impact the Company's reputation. The Company also relies on patent and other intellectual property protection, and challenges to the Company's intellectual property rights, or claims that the Company's activities interfere with the intellectual property rights of a third party, could cause the Company to incur significant expenses to assert or defend against such claims, could result in reduced revenue, and could damage the Company's reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. For a more detailed discussion of the legal proceedings involving the Company and the associated accounting estimates, see the discussion in Note 19, 'Commitments and Contingencies,' within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

## Risks Related to Our Products and Customer Preferences

* The Company's results are affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences.

Demand for the Company's products, which impacts revenue and profit margins, is affected by, among other things, (i) the development and timing of the introduction of competitive products; (ii) the Company's pricing strategies; (iii) changes in customer order patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained by customers, vendors, or channel partners; (iv) changes in customers' preferences for our products, including preferences for products that do not contain PFAS, the success of products offered by our competitors, and changes in customer designs for their products that can affect the demand for some of the Company's products; and (v) changes in the business environment related to disruptive technologies, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies, block-chain, expanded analytics, and other enhanced learnings from increasing volume of available data.

--- PAGE 24 ---

- * Change in the Company's credit ratings or increases in benchmark interest rates could increase cost of funding.

The Company's credit ratings are important to 3M's cost of capital. The major rating agencies routinely evaluate the Company's credit profile and assign debt ratings to 3M. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength, business and financial risk, as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. The Company's credit ratings have served to lower 3M's borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety of lenders. As of the date of this report, 3M has a credit rating of A3, stable outlook from Moody's Investors Service, a credit rating of BBB+, negative outlook from S&amp;P Global Ratings, and a credit rating of A-, stable outlook from Fitch. The addition of further leverage to the Company's capital structure could impact 3M's credit ratings in the future. Failure to maintain strong investment grade ratings and further downgrades by the ratings agencies, would adversely affect the Company's cost of funding and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and access to capital markets. In addition, interest expense could increase due to a rise in interest rates.

* Changes in tax rates, laws, or regulations could adversely impact our financial results.

The Company's business is subject to tax-related external conditions, such as tax rates, tax laws and regulations, changing political environments in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions that impact tax examination, and assessment and enforcement approaches. In addition, changes in tax laws including further regulatory developments arising from U.S. or international tax reform legislation could result in a tax expense or benefit recorded to the Company's Consolidated Statement of Earnings. In connection with the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Integrated Framework provided by Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), determination of multi-jurisdictional taxation rights and the rate of tax applicable to certain types of income may be subject to potential change. Due to the evolving nature of global tax laws and regulations and compliance approaches, it is currently not possible to assess the ultimate impact of these actions on our financial statements, but these actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results.

## Risks Related to the Company's Aearo Entities and Combat Arms Earplug Settlement

- * The Company is subject to risks related to the Company's Aearo Entities and CAE Settlement.

As previously disclosed, and as discussed further in Note 19, 'Commitments and Contingencies,' within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Aearo Technologies sold Dual-Ended Combat Arms - Version 2 earplugs starting in about 1999. 3M acquired Aearo Technologies in 2008 and sold these earplugs from 2008 through 2015, when the product was discontinued. 3M and Aearo Technologies believe the Combat Arms Earplugs were effective and safe when used properly, but nevertheless faced significant litigation relating to the earplugs. In August 2023, the Company and the Aearo Entities entered into a settlement arrangement (as amended, the 'CAE Settlement') which is structured to promote participation by claimants and is intended to resolve, to the fullest extent possible, all litigation and alleged claims involving the CAE sold or manufactured by the Aearo Entities and/or 3M. Pursuant to the CAE Settlement, 3M will contribute a total amount of $6.0 billion between 2023 and 2029. Payments to claimants are subject to certain conditions, including providing 3M with a full release of any and all claims involving the CAE. As of the final registration date for the CAE Settlement, more than 99% of claimants are participating in the settlement. The CAE Settlement is subject to risk and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, whether there will be a significant number of future claims by plaintiffs that decline to participate in the CAE Settlement, whether the CAE Settlement is appealed or challenged, or the filing and outcome of additional litigation in the United States and internationally relating to the products that are the subject of the CAE Settlement. These and other events related to the CAE Settlement, including the potential impact of the CAE Settlement on related matters, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position.

## Risks Related to the Spin-off of Solventum, the Company's Former Health Care Business

- * The Company is subject to risks related to the separation of Solventum, the Company's former Health Care business, into an independent public company.

On April 1, 2024, the Company completed the planned spin-off of its health care business, which is known as Solventum Corporation, as an independent company. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the transaction will be realized, or that the costs or dis-synergies of the transaction (including costs of related restructuring transactions) will not exceed the anticipated amounts, in each case in the amounts or within the timeframes that were anticipated. The separation may also impose challenges on the Company and its business, including potential impacts on the Company's relationships with its customers, employees, regulators, and other counterparties; and the risk that any consents or approvals required will not be obtained or will be obtained subject to material modifications to the terms of the underlying arrangement.

In connection with the separation, the Company and Solventum entered into various agreements that provide for the performance of certain services or provision of goods by each company for the benefit of the other, including a separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a transition distribution services agreement, a transition contract manufacturing agreement, a stockholder's and registration rights agreement, an intellectual property cross license agreement, a master supply agreement, and a reverse master supply agreement. Performance under these agreement or other related conditions outside of the Company's control could materially affect our operations and future financial results.

--- PAGE 25 ---

Following the separation, the Company is a smaller, less diversified company than it was prior to the separation, which could make the Company more vulnerable to factors impacting its performance, such as changing market conditions and market volatility. In addition, the Company may be unable to find suitable alternatives for goods and services that Solventum temporarily provides to the Company pursuant to the agreements noted above, or such alternative goods and services may be more expensive than provided by Solventum to the Company.

The Company retained an equity interest in Solventum in connection with the spin-off. The Company cannot predict the trading price of shares of Solventum's common stock and the market value of the Solventum shares is subject to market volatility and other factors outside of the Company's control. The Company intends to divest its ownership interest in Solventum within five years from the spin-off, but there can be no assurance regarding the timing of, or timeframe over which, such divestiture or divestitures may occur, or the amount of proceeds received by the Company in connection with any such divestitures.

In addition, while it is intended that the transaction be tax-free to the Company's stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, there is no assurance that the transactions will qualify for this treatment. If the spin-off is ultimately determined to be taxable, the Company, Solventum, or the Company's stockholders could incur income tax liabilities that could be significant. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the price of our common stock.

## Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

## Item 1C. Cybersecurity

## Risk Management and Strategy

The Company has processes for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. These processes are integrated into the Company's overall risk management systems, as overseen by the Company's board of directors, primarily through its audit committee. These processes also include overseeing and identifying risks from cybersecurity threats associated with the use of third-party service providers. The Company conducts security assessments of certain third-party providers before engagement and has established monitoring procedures in its effort to mitigate risks related to data breaches or other security incidents originating from third parties. The Company from time to time engages third-party consultants, legal advisors, and audit firms in evaluating and testing the Company's risk management systems and assessing and remediating certain cybersecurity incidents. The Company also continues to provide its employees with cybersecurity and data protection training to support its risk mitigation efforts.

## Governance

## Board of Directors

The audit committee of the Company's board of directors oversees, among other things, the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's internal controls, including internal controls designed to assess, identify, and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats. The audit committee is informed of material risks from cybersecurity threats pursuant to the escalation criteria as set forth in the Company's disclosure controls and procedures. Further, at least once per quarter, the Company's Chief Information and Digital Officer ('CIDO'), and/or the Company's Chief Information Security Officer ('CISO'), reports on cybersecurity matters, including material risks and threats, to the Company's audit committee, and the audit committee provides updates to the Company's board of directors at regular board meetings. The CIDO also provides updates annually or more frequently as appropriate to the Company's board of directors.

## Management

Under the oversight of the audit committee of the Company's board of directors, and as directed by the Company's Chief Executive Officer, the CIDO and CISO are primarily responsible for the assessment and management of material cybersecurity risks. The CIDO has more than two decades of experience with global technology organizations across multiple industries. The CISO has over 25 years of experience in information security, risk management, and compliance, has served as the chief information security officer at other organizations and, among other things, is a certified information systems security professional. The CIDO and CISO are also supported by a Cybersecurity &amp; Privacy Executive Oversight Committee, which is comprised of certain members of senior management and is provides cross-functional support for cybersecurity risk management and facilitates the response to any cybersecurity incidents.

The Company's CISO oversees the Company's cybersecurity incident response plan and related processes that are designed to assess and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats. The Company's CISO also coordinates with the Company's legal counsel and third parties, such as consultants and legal advisors, to assess and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats. The Company's CISO is informed about and monitors the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents pursuant to criteria set forth in the Company's incident response plan and related processes.

--- PAGE 46 ---

Effective February 8, 2023, the Company renewed its 'well-known seasoned issuer' (WKSI) shelf registration statement, which registers an indeterminate amount of debt or equity securities for future issuance and sale. 3M also has a medium-term notes program (Series F) program, originally established in 2016, up to an aggregate principal amount of $18 billion. As of December 31, 2024, the total amount of debt issued under the (Series F) program is approximately $17.6 billion (utilizing the foreign exchange rates applicable at the time of issuance for the euro denominated debt). The Company has not issued any debt under the (Series F) program since February 2019 and does not intend to issue any additional debt under this program in the future.

Information with respect to long-term debt issuances and maturities for the periods presented is included in Note 14.

3M has a $4.25 billion five-year revolving credit facility that expires in May 2028. The revolving credit agreement includes a provision under which 3M may request an increase of up to $1.0 billion (at lender's discretion), bringing the total facility up to $5.25 billion. The credit facility was undrawn at December 31, 2024. Under the $4.25 billion credit facility, the Company is required to maintain its EBITDA to Interest Ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter at not less than 3.0 to 1. This is calculated (based on amounts defined in the amended agreement) as the ratio of consolidated total EBITDA for the four consecutive quarters then ended to total interest expense on all funded debt for the same period. At December 31, 2024, 3M was in compliance with this requirement. Debt covenants do not restrict the payment of dividends.

The Company also had $0.5 billion in stand-alone letters of credit, bank guarantees, and other similar instruments issued and outstanding at December 31, 2024. These instruments are utilized in connection with normal business activities.

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: At December 31, 2024, 3M had $7.7 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, of which approximately $3.5 billion was held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries and approximately $4.2 billion was held in the United States. These balances are invested in bank instruments and other high quality securities. At December 31, 2023, 3M had $5.8 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, of which approximately $3.1 billion was held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries and $2.7 billion was held by the United States. The increase from December 31, 2023 was driven by $8.4 billion in proceeds from debt (primarily related to Solventum's issuance of debt prior to the Separation as discussed in Note 14) partially offset by approximately $4.6 billion in payments associated with PFAS-related other environmental liabilities and the CAE legal settlement (both discussed in Note 19 - note also the "Material Cash Requirements from Known Contractual and Other Obligations" section further below) and debt maturities.

Net Debt (non-GAAP measure): Net debt is not defined under U.S. GAAP and may not be computed the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company defines net debt as total debt less the total of cash, cash equivalents and current and long-term marketable securities all on a continuing operations basis. 3M believes net debt is meaningful to investors as 3M considers net debt and its components to be important indicators of liquidity and financial position. The table below provides net debt as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023.

| (Millions)                                             | December 31, 2024   | December 31, 2023   | Change    |
|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-----------|
| Total debt                                             | $ 13,044            | $ 16,035            | $ (2,991) |
| Less: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities | 7,744               | 5,805               | 1,939     |
| Net debt (non-GAAP measure)                            | $ 5,300             | $ 10,230            | $ (4,930) |

Refer to the preceding Total Debt and Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities sections for additional details.

Balance Sheet: 3M's strong balance sheet and liquidity provide the Company with significant flexibility to fund its numerous opportunities going forward. The Company will continue to invest in its operations to drive growth, including continual review of acquisition opportunities.

The Company uses working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets, such as accounts receivable and inventory activity.

Working capital (non-GAAP measure):

| (Millions)                         | December 31, 2024   | December 31, 2023   | Change   |
|------------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------|----------|
| Current assets                     | $ 15,884            | $ 16,379            | $ (495)  |
| Less: Current liabilities          | 11,256              | 15,297              | (4,041)  |
| Working capital (non-GAAP measure) | $ 4,628             | $ 1,082             | $ 3,546  |

Various assets and liabilities, including cash and short-term debt, can fluctuate significantly from month to month depending on short-term liquidity needs. Working capital is not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be computed the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company defines working capital as current assets minus current liabilities. 3M believes working capital is meaningful to investors as a measure of operational efficiency and short-term financial health.

--- PAGE 47 ---

Working capital increased $3.5 billion compared with December 31, 2023 primarily driven by lower balances of current liabilities principally of discontinued operations, short-term borrowings and current portions of long-term debt, and current liabilities relating to the PWS settlement (discussed in Note 19).

Cash Flows: Discussions of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities are provided in the sections that follow. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows include the results of continuing and discontinued operations and, therefore, also include cash and cash equivalents associated with Solventum through its April 2024 separation from 3M that were presented in current assets of discontinued operations in the 3M Consolidated Balance Sheet.

## Cash Flows from Operating Activities:

Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period, as working capital movements, tax timing differences and other items such as litigation payments can significantly impact cash flows.

In 2024, cash flows provided by operating activities decreased $4.9 billion compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by approximately $4.6 billion in payments associated with PFAS-related other environmental liabilities and the CAE legal settlement (both discussed in Note 19). The 2023 pre-tax charges of $10.5 billion related to the PWS Settlement and of $4.3 billion (inclusive of imputed interest) related to the CAE Settlement largely impacted the net income component within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, with offsets in the other-net and deferred tax elements.

## Cash Flows from Investing Activities:

Investments in property, plant and equipment (PP&amp;E) enable growth across many diverse markets, helping to meet product demand and increasing manufacturing efficiency. 3M invested $1.2 billion on PP&amp;E in 2024. The Company expects 2025 capital spending to be approximately $1.1 billion as 3M continues to invest in growth, productivity and sustainability.

3M invests in renewal and maintenance programs, which pertain to cost reduction, cycle time, maintaining and renewing current capacity, eliminating pollution, and compliance. Costs related to maintenance, ordinary repairs, and certain other items are expensed. 3M also invests in growth, which adds to capacity, driven by new products, both through expansion of current facilities and new facilities. Finally, 3M also invests in other initiatives, such as information technology (IT), laboratory facilities, and a continued focus on investments in sustainability.

Purchases of marketable securities and investments and proceeds from maturities and sale of marketable securities and investments are primarily attributable to certificates of deposit/time deposits, commercial paper, and other securities, which are classified as available-for-sale. Refer to Note 13 for more details about 3M's diversified marketable securities portfolio.

## Cash Flows from Financing Activities:

## 2024 Debt Activity :

Debt cash flow activity includes proceeds from Solventum's issuance of $8.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of debt in the first quarter of 2024 partially offset by $2.9 billion in debt maturities, consisting of $1.1 billion of medium-term notes and $1.8 billion repayment of commercial paper borrowings. Gross commercial paper issuances and repayments, in addition to repayments of the fixed-rate notes, are largely reflected in 'Proceeds from debt (maturities greater than 90 days)' and "Repayment of debt (maturities greater than 90 days)". The Company had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2024, compared to $1.8 billion commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2023. 3M's primary short-term liquidity needs are met through cash on hand and U.S. commercial paper issuances. Refer to Note 14 for more detail regarding debt.

## 2023 Debt Activity:

Debt cash flow activity included maturities of $1.8 billion of fixed-rate notes offset by net issuances of commercial paper of $1.8 billion (issuance and subsequent repayments/reissuances). The gross commercial paper issuances and repayments, in addition to repayments of the fixed-rate notes, are largely reflected in 'Proceeds from debt (maturities greater than 90 days)' and "Repayment of debt (maturities greater than 90 days)".

## Repurchases of Common Stock:

Repurchases of common stock are made to support the Company's stock-based employee compensation plans and for other corporate purposes. In 2024, the Company purchased $1.8 billion of its own stock. For more information, refer to the table titled 'Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities' in Part II, Item 5. The Company does not utilize derivative instruments linked to the Company's stock.

## Dividends Paid to Shareholders:

3M has paid dividends since 1916. Cash dividends declared and paid totaled $1.51 per share for the first quarter of 2024; $0.70 per share for each of the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2024; and $1.50 per share for each quarter in 2023. In February 2025, 3M's Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2025 dividend of $0.73 per share, an increase of 4 percent.

--- PAGE 48 ---

Cash flows from financing activity in 2024 also include $0.6 billion of net cash transferred to Solventum associated with the close of the Separation (discussed in Note 2).

Other cash flows from financing activities may include various other items, such as cash paid associated with certain derivative instruments, distributions to or sales of noncontrolling interests, changes in overdraft balances, and principal payments for finance leases.

Material Cash Requirements from Known Contractual and Other Obligations: 3M's material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to following, for which information on both a short-term and long-term basis is provided in the indicated notes to the consolidated financial statements:

-  Tax obligations-Refer to Note 11.
-  Debt-Refer to Note 14. Future cash payments for interest on long-term debt is approximately $5 billion.
-  Commitments and contingencies-Refer to Note 19. In addition to other matters discussed therein, Note 19 references that the Company expects to pay up to $12.5 billion in the aggregate from 2023 through 2036 pursuant to the terms of the PWS Settlement and expects to pay up to $6.0 billion in the aggregate from 2023 to 2029 pursuant to the terms of the CAE Settlement. Through December 31, 2024, 3M has paid an aggregate amount of $5.0 billion relating to these settlements. Note 8 provides further information regarding amounts due under these settlements. See the settlement agreements that are included in the exhibit list to this filing for additional information.
-  Operating and finance leases-Refer to Note 20.

3M purchases the majority of its materials and services as needed, with no unconditional commitments. In limited circumstances, in the normal course of business, 3M enters into unconditional purchase obligations with various vendors that may take the form of, for example, take or pay contracts in which 3M guarantees payment to ensure availability to 3M of certain materials or services or to ensure ongoing efforts on capital projects. The Company expects to receive underlying materials or services for these purchase obligations. To the extent the limited amount of these purchase obligations fluctuates, it largely trends with normal-course changes in regular operating activities. Additionally, contractual capital commitments represent a small part of the Company's expected capital spending.

## Financial Instruments

The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies and to offset, in part, the impacts of changes in value of various non-functional currency denominated items including certain intercompany financing balances. As circumstances warrant, the Company also uses foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency denominated debt as hedging instruments to hedge portions of the Company's net investments in foreign operations. The Company manages interest rate risks using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. To help manage borrowing costs, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps. Under these arrangements, the Company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. The Company manages commodity price risks through negotiated supply contracts and price protection agreements.

Refer to Item 7A, 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk', for further discussion of foreign exchange rates risk, interest rates risk and commodity prices risk.

## Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

In the context of Item 7A, 3M is exposed to market risk due to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Changes in those factors could impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Senior management oversees risk management and derivative activities, sets financial risk policies and objectives, and provides guidelines for derivative instrument utilization. Senior management also establishes procedures related to control and valuation, risk analysis, counterparty credit approval, and ongoing monitoring and reporting.

To quantify 3M's primary market risk exposure, the Company performs a sensitivity analysis based on hypothetical changes in foreign currency spot exchange rates and interest rates as further described in the sections below. These hypothetical changes are not applied to cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable due to their short-term nature, nor to availablefor-sale marketable securities as unrealized and realized gains or losses thereon are historically not material.

Refer to Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies, Note 13. Marketable Securities, Note 14. Long-Term Debt and Short-Term Borrowings, Note 17. Derivatives and Note 18. Fair Value Measurements within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of foreign currency exchange, interest rates and financial instruments.

--- PAGE 50 ---

## Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 3M Company

## Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of 3M Company and its subsidiaries (the 'Company') as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the related consolidated statements of income (loss), of comprehensive income (loss), of changes in equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2024, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the 'consolidated financial statements'). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2024 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.

## Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

## Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

--- PAGE 77 ---

## Short-Term Borrowings and Current Portion of Long-Term Debt:

|                                                                   | Effective Interest   | Carrying Value   | Carrying Value   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|------------------|------------------|
| (Millions)                                                        | Rate                 | 2024             | 2023             |
| Current portion of long-term debt                                 | 2.67 %               | $ 1,919          | $ 1,152          |
| U.S. dollar commercial paper                                      | - %                  | -                | 1,795            |
| Total short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt |                      | $ 1,919          | $ 2,947          |

Future Maturities of Long-term Debt: Maturities of long-term debt in the table below reflect the impact of put provisions associated with certain debt instruments and are net of the unamortized debt issue costs such that total maturities equal the carrying value of long-term debt as of December 31, 2024. The maturities of long-term debt for the periods subsequent to December 31, 2024 are as follows (in millions):

| 2025   | 2026   |   2027 |   2028 | 2029   | After 2029   | Total   |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------------|---------|
| 1,919  | 1,520  |    847 |    740 | 1,791  | 6,227        | 13,044  |

As a result of put provisions associated with certain debt instruments, long-term debt payments due in 2025 include floating rate notes totaling $119 million (classified as current portion of long-term debt).

Credit Facilities: 3M has a $4.25 billion five-year revolving credit facility that expires in May 2028. The revolving credit agreement includes a provision under which 3M may request an increase of up to $1.0 billion (at lender's discretion), bringing the total facility up to $5.25 billion. The credit facility was undrawn at December 31, 2024. Under the $4.25 billion credit facility, the Company is required to maintain its EBITDA to Interest Ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter at not less than 3.0 to 1. This is calculated (based on amounts defined in the amended agreement) as the ratio of consolidated total EBITDA for the four consecutive quarters then ended to total interest expense on all funded debt for the same period. At December 31, 2024, 3M was in compliance with this requirement. Debt covenants do not restrict the payment of dividends.

Other Credit Facilities: The Company also had $0.5 billion in stand-alone letters of credit, bank guarantees, and other similar instruments issued and outstanding at December 31, 2024. These instruments are utilized in connection with normal business activities.

Solventum Related Debt: In the first quarter of 2024, Solventum, prior to the Separation discussed in Note 2, issued a total of $8.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured debt and term loans. Also during the first quarter of 2024, Solventum further entered into a revolving credit facility of $2 billion which was undrawn as of March 31, 2024. These Solventum items were guaranteed by 3M until the completion of the Separation on April 1, 2024 and obligations under these notes, loans and facilities became, as transferred obligations, the sole responsibility of Solventum after the Separation.

Fixed-to-Floating Interest Rate Swaps: During 2021, 3M entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $800 million. These swaps converted $500 million and $300 million of 3M's $1 billion and $650 million principal amount of fixed rate notes due 2049 and 2050, respectively, into floating rate debt for the portion of their terms through mid-2028 with an original interest rate based on a three-month LIBOR index, which since was amended to a rate based on a SOFR index.

Long-Term Debt Maturities and Extinguishments: In 2024, 3M repaid $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of mediumterm notes that matured.

In 2023, 3M repaid $500 million aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate registered notes that matured, $650 million aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate medium-term notes that matured and 600 million euros aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate medium-term notes that matured.

In 2022, 3M repaid 500 million euros aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate medium-term notes that matured and $600 million aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate medium-term notes that matured.

Floating Rate Notes: At various times, 3M has issued floating rate notes containing put provisions, amounting to $0.2 billion in total. 3M would be required to repurchase these securities at various prices ranging from 99 percent to 100 percent of par value according to the reduction schedules for each security. Under the terms of this floating rate note due in 2044, holders have an annual put feature at 100 percent of par value from 2014 and every anniversary thereafter until final maturity. Under the terms of the floating rate notes due in 2027, 2040 and 2041, holders have put options that commence ten years from the date of issuance and each third anniversary thereafter until final maturity at prices ranging from 99 percent to 100 percent of par value. For the periods presented, 3M was required to repurchase an immaterial amount of principal on the aforementioned floating rate notes.

--- PAGE 91 ---

Fair Value of Financial Instruments : The Company's financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, certain investments, accounts payable, borrowings, and derivative contracts. The fair values of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt approximated carrying values because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The fair value of long-term notes receivable approximates the carrying value. Available-for-sale marketable securities and Solventum common stock are recorded at fair values as indicated in the preceding disclosures, in addition to certain investments and derivative instruments. To estimate fair values (classified as level 2) for its long-term debt, the Company utilized third-party quotes, which are derived all or in part from model prices, external sources, market prices, or the third-party's internal records. Information with respect to the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of these financial instruments follow:

|                                           | December 31, 2024   | December 31, 2024   | December 31, 2023   | December 31, 2023   |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| (Millions)                                | Carrying Value      | Fair Value          | Carrying Value      | Fair Value          |
| Long-term debt, excluding current portion | $ 11,125            | $ 9,856             | $ 13,088            | $ 11,859            |

The fair values reflected in the sections above consider the terms of the related debt absent the impacts of derivative/hedging activity. The carrying amount of long-term debt referenced above is impacted by certain fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedges and by the designation of certain fixed rate Eurobond securities issued by the Company as hedging instruments of the Company's net investment in its European subsidiaries.

## NOTE 19. Commitments and Contingencies

Warranties/Guarantees : 3M's accrued product warranty liabilities, recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as part of current and long-term liabilities, are estimated at approximately $49 million at December 31, 2024, and $52 million at December 31, 2023. Further information on product warranties is not disclosed, as the Company considers the balance immaterial to its consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 3M guarantees of loans with third parties and other guarantee arrangements are not material.

Legal Proceedings: The Company and some of its subsidiaries are involved in numerous claims and lawsuits and regulatory proceedings worldwide. These claims, lawsuits and proceedings relate to matters including, but not limited to, commercial; products liability (involving products that the Company now or formerly manufactured and sold); securities and corporate governance; antitrust and competition; intellectual property; environmental, health and safety; tax; the FCPA and other antibribery and anti-corruption laws; international import and export requirements and trade sanctions compliance; laws and regulations that apply to industries served by the Company, including the False Claims Act, anti-kickback laws, and the Sunshine Act; and other matters. Unless otherwise stated, the Company is vigorously defending all such litigation and proceedings. From time to time, the Company also receives subpoenas, investigative demands or requests for information from various government agencies in the United States and foreign countries. The Company generally responds in a cooperative, thorough and timely manner. These responses sometimes require time and effort and can result in considerable costs being incurred by the Company. Such requests can also lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of administrative, civil, or criminal legal proceedings against the Company and others, as well as to settlements. The Company also from time to time becomes aware of certain writs of summons, pre-suit claims, demands or other preliminary or informal assertions of claims or potential future claims that may proceed in the United States or in foreign countries. In response, the Company or its subsidiaries may engage in respect of such matters where it believes it would be appropriate to work towards a negotiated resolution of such matters. The outcomes of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are often difficult to predict. Any determination that the Company's operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, and equitable remedies, including disgorgement, suspension or debarment, or injunctive relief.

Process for Disclosure and Recording of Liabilities Related to Legal Proceedings: Many lawsuits and claims involve highly complex issues relating to causation, scientific evidence, and alleged actual damages, all of which are subject to substantial uncertainties. Assessments of lawsuits and claims can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. The categories of legal proceedings in which the Company is involved may include multiple lawsuits and claims, may be spread across multiple jurisdictions and courts which may handle the lawsuits and claims differently, may involve numerous and different types of plaintiffs, raising claims and legal theories based on specific allegations that may not apply to other matters, and may seek substantial compensatory and, in some cases, punitive, damages. These and other factors contribute to the complexity of these lawsuits and claims and make it difficult for the Company to predict outcomes and make reasonable estimates of any resulting losses. The Company's ability to predict outcomes and make reasonable estimates of potential losses is further influenced by the fact that a resolution of one or more matters within a category of legal proceedings may impact the resolution of other matters in that category in terms of timing, amount of liability, or both.

--- PAGE 97 ---

## Europe

In the European Union, where 3M has PFAS manufacturing facilities in Germany and Belgium, recent regulatory activities have included various proposed and enacted restrictions of PFAS or certain PFAS compounds, including, among others, under the EU's Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals ("REACH"), the EU's Persistent Organic Pollutants ("POPs") Regulation, the EU's Food Contaminants Regulation and the EU's Water Drinking Directive. PFOA, PFOS and PFHxS (and their related compounds) are listed under several Annexes of the POPs Regulation, resulting in a ban in manufacture, placing on the market and use as well as some waste management requirements of these substances in EU Member States. These substances have also been listed in the Stockholm Convention, which has been ratified by more than 180 countries and aims for global elimination of certain listed substances (with narrow exceptions). In February 2023, an EU-wide restriction on the manufacturing, use, placing on the market and import of certain perfluorocarboxylic acids (C9-C14 PFCAs), which are PFAS substances, also went into effect. In September 2024, the EU adopted a restriction on certain uses of perfluorohexanoic acid ('PFHxA') and PFHxA-related substances, including in consumer goods and some uses of firefighting foams and concentrates.

With respect to the applicability of the amendment of the EU POPs Regulation to include PFOA, which has been applicable since 2021, Dyneon, a 3M subsidiary that operates the Gendorf facility in Germany, proactively consulted with the relevant German competent authority regarding improvements necessary to meet applicable limits for a recycling process for a critical emulsifier for which small amounts of PFOA are present after recycling as an unintended contaminant. In consultation with German regulatory authorities, to achieve the applicable limits for the use of the emulsifier until the exit of PFAS manufacturing, Dyneon has started to use a method containing a mix of recycled and virgin emulsifier.

In February 2023, the European Chemicals Agency published a proposal to restrict the manufacture, placing on the market, and use of PFAS under REACH, subject to certain proposed exceptions. Depending on the timing, scope, and obligations contained in any final restriction, PFAS manufacturers and manufacturers of PFAS-containing products including 3M could incur additional costs and potential exposures, including costs of having to discontinue or modify products prior to the previouslyannounced exit of PFAS manufacturing by the end of 2025, future compliance costs, possible litigation and/or enforcement actions.

Effective January 2023, the EU Food Contaminants Regulation targeting four PFAS (PFOS, PFOA, perfluorononanoic acid ("PFNA"), and PFHxS) in foodstuff (eggs and animal derived meat) prohibits the sale in all member states of foods containing levels of these chemicals exceeding certain regulatory thresholds. This change may impact 3M, but any such impact is unknown at this time.

The EU regulates PFAS in drinking water via a Drinking Water Directive, which includes a limit of 0.1 micrograms per liter (g/l) (or 0.1 parts per billion (ppb)) for a sum of 20 PFAS in drinking water. January 2023 was the deadline for Member States to implement the Directive in their countries. A majority of Member States have implemented the EU Directive. Some Member States, including Germany, adopted more restrictive limits for certain PFAS substances. These new standards may have an impact on remedial obligations and liabilities, though such impact is unknown at this time.

## Government interactions related to PFAS manufacturing in Gendorf

Dyneon and the predecessor operators of the Gendorf facility have commissioned a voluntary feasibility study by an independent soil consultant. The study discusses the feasibility of various options to treat PFOA in soil and groundwater as well as associated costs and the environmental impact of such treatment or disposal. The study has been shared with the competent authority. An expert body advising the competent authorities in the county recently provided feedback on the feasibility study and identified several additional recommended steps, including certain immediate measures and additional soil and groundwater investigations, and the competent authorities have indicated that they are likely to adopt at least some of the recommended steps. As a result of this process, Dyneon has agreed to sponsor environmental studies related to the potential establishment of a landfill to dispose of PFOA-impacted soil, and a local authority has indicated that Dyneon should contribute to the financing of that landfill. Dyneon also continues to engage with the authorities about potential remedial actions, which may be required in the future to address soil and groundwater.

## PFAS manufacturing in Zwijndrecht:

3M Belgium, a subsidiary of the Company, owns and operates a facility in Zwijndrecht, Antwerp, Belgium that manufactured various PFAS containing products. All PFAS manufacturing was completed and discontinued at the Zwijndrecht facility in 2024 as part of the Company's previously-announced global exit of all PFAS manufacturing by the end of 2025.

--- PAGE 98 ---

3M Belgium has been working with the Public Flemish Waste Agency ("OVAM") for several years to investigate and remediate PFAS contamination at and near the Zwijndrecht facility. In connection with a ring road construction project (the Oosterweel Project) in Antwerp that involved extensive soil work, an investigative committee with judicial investigatory powers was formed in June 2021 by the Flemish Parliament to investigate PFAS found in the soil and groundwater near the Zwijndrecht facility. At various points, the Flemish Parliament, the Minister of the Environment, and regulatory authorities initiated investigations and demands for information related to the release of PFAS from the Zwijndrecht facility. 3M Belgium has cooperated with the authorities with respect to the investigations and information requests and is working with the authorities on an ongoing basis.

In September 2024, the Flemish Government approved 3M Belgium's latest application for a water discharge permit required for continued pump and treat operations at the Zwijndrecht facility following the exit of PFAS manufacturing. In October 2024, an appeal was filed against the permit by a local non-profit organization, and a hearing on the appeal was held in January 2025. The appeal suspends the approval of the permit until the competent authority decides on the merits of the appeal, which has not yet occurred. 3M Belgium is evaluating the potential impact of this action and potential next steps. 3M Belgium cannot at this time predict the outcome of any appeal of the permit and is therefore unable to assess whether the current Zwijndrecht wastewater treatment system, or currently conceived additional treatment technology, ultimately will be determined to meet permit limits imposed with respect to manufacturing at the Zwijndrecht facility. It is possible that additional actions will be required to reduce legacy sources of PFAS or that the wastewater treatment system will be unable to meet future discharge limits. If 3M Belgium is unable to meet the eventual discharge limits, such development could have a significant adverse impact on 3M Belgium's normal operations and the Company's businesses that receive products and other materials from the Zwijndrecht facility, some of which may not be available or in similar quantities from other 3M facilities, which could in turn impact these businesses' ability to fulfill supply obligations to their customers.

## Dust emissions:

As previously disclosed, in October 2022, the Environmental Inspectorate imposed a safety measure on 3M Belgium regarding certain health and safety issues noted during inspections of the Zwijndrecht facility in March 2022, alleging certain related deficiencies, some dating back to 2010. In July 2023, the Environmental Inspectorate issued an infraction report stating the actions taken by 3M Belgium to address the October 2022 safety measure were insufficient to reduce dust formation from the facility. 3M Belgium implemented additional control measures to address potential dust formation.

## Soil remediation and environmental law compliance:

Flemish government actions and Remediation Agreement. As previously disclosed, following the issuance of a notice of default from the Flemish Region alleging violations of environmental laws and seeking PFAS-related action and compensation, in July 2022, 3M Belgium and the Flemish Government announced an agreement (the 'Remediation Agreement') in connection with the Zwijndrecht facility. Pursuant to the Remediation Agreement, 3M Belgium, among other things, committed an aggregate of 571 million, including enhancements to site discharge control technologies, support for qualifying local commercial farmers impacted by restrictions on sale of agricultural products, ongoing off-site descriptive soil investigation, amounts to address certain identified priority remedial actions (which may include supporting additional actions as required under the Flemish Soil Decree), funds to be used by the Flemish Government in its sole discretion in connection with PFAS emissions from the Zwijndrecht facility, and support for the Oosterweel Project in cash and support services. The agreement contains certain provisions ending litigation and providing certain releases of liability for 3M Belgium, while recognizing that the Flemish Government retains its authority to act in the future to protect its citizenry, as specified in the agreement. In connection with these actions, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of approximately $500 million in the first half of 2022.

Soil remediation . Consistent with Flemish environmental law, descriptive soil investigations ('DSIs') have been carried out to assess areas of potential PFAS contamination that may require remediation. An accredited third-party soil remediation expert has conducted these DSIs. 3M Belgium has submitted all currently required DSIs.

Further, as previously disclosed, the accredited third-party soil remediation expert has prepared multiple remedial action plans that have been approved by OVAM, the competent authority, and implementation activities are underway. 3M Belgium has also submitted additional required remedial action plans, which are now being evaluated by OVAM. 3M Belgium anticipates submitting an additional remedial action plan regarding wastewater in 2025. 3M Belgium representatives continue to have discussions with the relevant authorities regarding further soil remedial actions in connection with the Flemish Soil Decree.

Changes to Flemish Soil Decree . In December 2022, the Flemish Cabinet took steps to implement an executive action (the 'Site Decision') designed to expand 3M Belgium's remedial obligations around the Zwijndrecht site. On March 31, 2023, the Site Decision was fully approved by the Flemish Cabinet and the Site Decision was published in April 2023. While the full impact of the Site Decision remains to be determined, it appears to establish conditional obligations within 5 kilometers of Zwijndrecht and may create a presently undetermined amount of additional financial and remedial obligations for 3M Belgium. In June 2023, 3M Belgium submitted a petition for annulment of the Site Decision to the Belgian Council of State. Various parties purporting to have an interest in the proceeding, including the government of the Netherlands, intervened and submitted arguments supporting the Site Decision. All submissions related to the petition have been filed and the matter is pending a decision by the Council of State.

--- PAGE 102 ---

| In August 2024, three states (New Jersey, New Mexico, and North Carolina) petitioned EPA to list PFOA, PFOS, PFNA, and HFPO-DA as hazardous air pollutants under Clean Air Act and to establish emission standards from source categories. EPA has 18 months to respond to the petition.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| I n December 2024, EPA proposed updates to its general industrial stormwater permit applicable to various industries, including chemical manufacturing. The updates include provisions that, if finalized, would require dischargers in those sectors and in jurisdictions where EPA is the permitting authority to monitor for certain PFAS in their stormwater discharges and report the results.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| In January 2025, EPA released a draft risk assessment for PFOA and PFOS in biosolids. Public comments on the EPA's draft are due in March 2025. If finalized, that risk assessment could inform future regulations on PFAS in wastewater and biosolids.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| State Activity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Several state legislatures and state agencies have been evaluating or have taken various regulatory actions related to PFAS in the environment, including proposing or finalizing cleanup standards for PFAS in soil and water, groundwater standards, surface water standards, and/or drinking water standards for PFOS, PFOA, and other PFAS. 3M has submitted various responsive comments to various of these proposals. Examples of state actions related to PFAS are discussed below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| States with finalized drinking water standards for certain PFAS include Vermont, New Jersey, New York, New Hampshire, Michigan, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. Several other states, including Idaho and North Carolina, have started processes to adopt EPA's federal drinking water standards for PFAS into state rules.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| In 2021 and 2022, California finalized its listing of PFOS (and its salts and transformation and degradation precursors) and PFOA as carcinogens and reproductive toxicants, and PFNA as a reproductive toxicant under its Proposition 65 law. California has also proposed listing PFDA, PFHxS, and PFUnDA as reproductive toxicants under Proposition 65.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| In April 2021, 3M filed a lawsuit against the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy ("EGLE") to invalidate the drinking water standards EGLE promulgated under an accelerated timeline. In November 2022, the court granted 3M's motion for summary judgment on the merits and invalidated EGLE's rule based on its failure to properly consider relevant costs. The court stayed the effect of its decision pending appeal. EGLE appealed the decision in December 2022. In August 2023, the Michigan Court of Appeals upheld the lower court's decision that EGLE's rule was invalid. EGLE has appealed this ruling to the Michigan Supreme Court. Oral argument was held in November 2024, and the parties submitted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Some states have also been evaluating or have taken actions relating to PFOA, PFOS and other PFAS compounds in products. In 2021, the State of Maine passed its Act To Stop Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances Pollution, which banned intentionally added PFAS in products effective January 1, 2030, and required broad reporting of products containing intentionally added PFAS effective January 1, 2023. In December 2022, 3M submitted to the Maine Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP") a list of products containing intentionally added PFAS that were sold in the U.S. in 2020-2022 in response to the law. 3M submitted an updated copy of that list to the Maine DEP in May 2023. The Maine legislature has since enacted legislation retroactive to January 1, 2023, that includes changes to the product bans and notification requirements in the original legislation, including by narrowing the products for which notification is required and extending the compliance date. |
| In May 2023, Minnesota enacted a law that includes broad PFAS prohibitions and reporting obligations. The statute bans the sale of products in 11 categories containing intentionally added PFAS beginning January 1, 2025. The law further requires that manufacturers of any products containing intentionally added PFAS that are sold, offered for sale, or distributed in Minnesota must submit notifications to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency ("MPCA") by January 1, 2026. The statute also includes general prohibition on sales of PFAS-containing products starting January 1, 2032, unless the MPCA has determined through a rulemaking that the use of PFAS in the product is unavoidable. In September 2023, the MPCA initiated a rulemaking process to implement the law's reporting obligations. The MPCA has also initiated a separate rulemaking concerning currently unavoidable uses of PFAS under the law.                                                                                 |
| Certain states, including Colorado, California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Washington, have enacted restrictions on PFAS in certain categories of products, including textiles, children's products, cosmetics, fire fighter personal protective equipment and food packaging products.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| The Company cannot predict what additional regulatory or legislative actions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere arising from the foregoing or other proceedings and activities, if any, may be taken regarding such compounds or the consequences of any such actions to the Company, including to its manufacturing operations and its products. Given divergent and rapidly evolving regulatory standards, there is currently significant uncertainty about the potential costs to industry and communities associated with remediation and control technologies that may be required.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

--- PAGE 109 ---

## Cordova, Illinois

The Company is authorized to discharge wastewater from its Cordova plant pursuant to an NPDES permit issued by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency ('IEPA'). As previously reported, in November 2019, the Company disclosed to the EPA, and, in January 2020, disclosed to the IEPA, that the Company's NPDES permit for the Cordova facility did not include all PFAS that had been identified in its water discharge. An application to add to the plant's permit the additional PFAS was submitted to IEPA, and the Company has now brought on-line and continues to optimize a wastewater treatment specifically designed to treat PFAS. The Company continues to work with the EPA and IEPA. IEPA has not acted on the pending application.

In November 2022, the Company entered into an Administrative Consent Order under the Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA") that requires the Company to continue to sample and survey private and public drinking water wells within the vicinity of the Cordova facility, provide treatment of private water wells within a three-mile radius of the Cordova facility, and to provide alternate treatment/supply for the Camanche, Iowa public drinking water system. The Company continues to work with EPA and the City of Camanche as it implements the SDWA Administrative Consent Order.

In April 2022, the Company received a TSCA information request from EPA seeking information related to the operation of specific PFAS-related processes at the Cordova facility. The Company has completed its production of documents and information and is cooperating with this inquiry.

In May 2022, the Company received a notice of potential violation and opportunity to confer and a notice of intent to file a complaint from EPA alleging violations of RCRA related to the use of tanks associated with certain chemical processes at the Cordova facility. While not admitting to the alleged violations, the Company elected to resolve the matter by entering into a Consent Agreement and Final Order with EPA in September 2024. As part of the settlement, the Company agreed to pay an immaterial penalty. In July 2023, 3M received from the EPA a draft for discussion of a consent order under RCRA. That order would require 3M to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and extent of PFAS contamination at and around its Cordova facility, among other items. In January 2025, the Company reached an agreement with the EPA on the terms of the consent order.

In March 2024, the Company received an information request from EPA seeking information related to the implementation of the Cordova facility's Clean Air Act section 122(r) risk management program. In May 2024, EPA conducted an on-site inspection at the Cordova facility as part of its 112(r) risk management program investigation. The Company has completed its production of information and documents responsive to the information request.

## Decatur, Alabama

In Alabama, as previously disclosed, the Company entered into a voluntary remedial action agreement with the Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) to remediate the presence of PFAS in the soil and groundwater at the Company's manufacturing facility in Decatur, Alabama. With ADEM's agreement, 3M substantially completed installation of a multilayer cap on the former sludge incorporation areas.

As previously disclosed, the Company operates under a 2009 consent order issued under the federal TSCA (the '2009 TSCA consent order') for the manufacture and use of two perfluorinated materials (FBSA and FBSEE) at the Decatur site that prohibits release of these materials into 'the waters of the United States.' In March 2019, the Company halted the manufacture, processing, and use of these materials at the site upon learning that these materials may have been released from certain specified processes at the Decatur site into the Tennessee River. In April 2019, the Company voluntarily disclosed the releases to the U.S. EPA and ADEM. During June and July 2019, the Company took steps to fully control the aforementioned processes by capturing all wastewater produced by the processes and treating all air emissions. These processes are no longer in use.

The Company is authorized to discharge wastewater from its Decatur plant pursuant to an NPDES permit issued by ADEM. In June 2019, as previously reported, the Company voluntarily disclosed to the EPA and ADEM that it had included incorrect values in certain of its monthly and quarterly reports. The Company has submitted the corrected values to both the EPA and ADEM. In addition, as previously reported, the Company discovered it had not fully characterized its PFAS discharge in its NPDES permit. In September 2019, the Company disclosed the matter to the EPA and ADEM and temporarily idled certain manufacturing processes at 3M Decatur. An application to add the additional PFAS to its NPDES permit was submitted to ADEM and the Company installed additional wastewater treatment controls to address PFAS. The wastewater controls are currently being upgraded and optimized. ADEM has not acted on the request to modify the NPDES permit.

As previously reported, in December 2019, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Alabama for documents related to, among other matters, the Company's compliance with the 2009 TSCA consent order and unpermitted discharges to the Tennessee River from its Decatur facility. The Company continues to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney's Office, the U.S. Department of Justice and the EPA with respect to this issue.

--- PAGE 110 ---

3M and ADEM agreed to the terms of an interim Consent Order in July 2020 to cover all PFAS-related wastewater discharges and air emissions from the Company's Decatur facility. Under the interim Consent Order, the Company's principal obligations include commitments related to (i) future ongoing site operations such as (a) providing notices or reports and performing various analytical and characterization studies and (b) future capital improvements; and (ii) remediation activities, including onsite and off-site investigations and studies. Obligations related to ongoing future site operations under the Consent Order or any further investigations may involve additional operating costs and capital expenditures over multiple years.

## Cottage Grove, Minnesota

The Company is authorized to discharge wastewater from its Cottage Grove plant pursuant to an NPDES permit issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). As previously reported, the Company discovered it had not fully characterized its PFAS discharge in its NPDES permit for the Cottage Grove facility and, in March 2020, disclosed this matter to the EPA and MPCA. The Company submitted an application to add the additional PFAS to its NPDES permit. The Company is currently installing a new wastewater treatment system to address PFAS.

The Company continues to work with the MPCA pursuant to the terms of an ongoing and previously disclosed May 2007 Settlement Agreement and Consent Order ("SACO") to address the presence of certain PFAS compounds in the soil and groundwater at former disposal sites in Washington County, Minnesota (Oakdale and Woodbury) and at the Company's manufacturing facility at Cottage Grove, Minnesota. Under this agreement, the Company's principal obligations include (i) evaluating releases of certain PFAS compounds from these sites and proposing response actions, including actions to provide treatment or alternative drinking water upon identifying any level exceeding a Health Based Value ("HBV") or Health Risk Limit ("HRL") (i.e., the amount of a chemical in drinking water determined by the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) to be safe for human consumption over a lifetime) for certain PFAS compounds for which a HBV and/or HRL exists; (ii) remediating identified sources of other PFAS compounds at these sites that are not controlled by actions to remediate PFOA and PFOS; and (iii) sharing information with the MPCA about certain perfluorinated compounds. The Company also continues to implement the previously disclosed 2008 remedial decision adopted by MPCA for the Woodbury and Oakdale sites and the 2009 remedial decision adopted by MPCA for the Cottage Grove site.

In January 2024, the MDH issued updated, more stringent, HBVs for PFOA and PFOS. In October 2024, MDH proposed HRLs for PFOA and PFOS. 3M continues to evaluate any potential impact of these developments on its obligations under the SACO.

In August 2009, the MPCA issued a decision adopting remedial options for the Company's Cottage Grove manufacturing facility. In the spring and summer of 2010, 3M began implementing the approved remedial options at the Cottage Grove and Woodbury sites, and in late 2010, 3M commenced the approved remedial option at the Oakdale site. The Company continues to implement those remediation activities.

In January 2021, MPCA issue a Notice of Violation that included measures requiring the Company to address the presence of PFAS in wastewater and to undertake certain facility improvements related to its wastewater discharge system. The Company continues to work with MPCA to implement the measures in the Notice of Violation.

In June 2022, MPCA directed that the Company address the presence of PFAS in its stormwater discharge from the Cottage Grove facility. The Company worked with MPCA to develop a plan to address its stormwater, which is embodied in an order issued by MPCA in December 2022, which the Company is working to implement.

In July 2024, MPCA published for public comment a draft Clean Water Act permit for the Cottage Grove facility that contains significantly revised effluent limits for certain PFAS in compounds in water discharged from the facility, some of which are below current limits of quantification for those compounds. 3M engaged with the MPCA on the draft permit through the public comment period and submitted comments to the permit in August 2024. In response to comments submitted by 3M and other interested parties, in December 2024, MPCA issued a revised draft Clean Water Act permit for the Cottage Grove facility. 3M is engaging with the MPCA on the revised draft permit. The outcome of the Clean Water Act permit issuance process for the Cottage Grove facility could have a significant adverse impact on the facility's operations and the Company's businesses that receive products and other materials from the Cottage Grove facility, some of which may not be available or in similar quantities from other 3M facilities.

## Hutchinson, Minnesota

MPCA issued to the Company a Notice of Violation in March 2023, alleging that the Company is discharging stormwater containing PFAS at the 3M's facility in Hutchinson, Minnesota. The Company is working with MPCA regarding the allegations in the Notice of Violation.

The Company continues to work with relevant federal and state agencies (including EPA, the U.S. Department of Justice, state environmental agencies and state attorneys general) as it responds to information, inspection, and other requests from the agencies. The Company is in negotiations with EPA, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the Alabama, Illinois and Minnesota state environmental agencies to address claims arising under the CWA and the TSCA related to the Company's plants in those states. The Company cannot predict at this time the outcomes of resolving these compliance matters, what actions may be taken by the regulatory agencies or the potential consequences to the Company.

--- PAGE 112 ---

It is difficult to estimate the cost of environmental compliance and remediation given the uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of applicable environmental laws and regulations, the extent of environmental contamination and the existence of alternative cleanup methods. Developments may occur that could affect the Company's current assessment, including, but not limited to: (i) changes in the information available regarding the environmental impact of the Company's operations and products; (ii) changes in environmental regulations, changes in permissible levels of specific compounds in drinking water sources, or changes in enforcement theories and policies, including efforts to recover natural resource damages; (iii) new and evolving analytical and remediation techniques; (iv) success in allocating liability to other potentially responsible parties; and (v) the financial viability of other potentially responsible parties and third-party indemnitors. For sites included in both 'environmental remediation liabilities' and 'other environmental liabilities,' at which remediation activity is largely complete and remaining activity relates primarily to operation and maintenance of the remedy, including required postremediation monitoring, the Company believes the exposure to loss in excess of the amount accrued would not be material to the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial condition. However, for locations at which remediation activity is largely ongoing, the Company cannot estimate a possible loss or range of possible loss in excess of the associated established accruals for the reasons described above.

The Company has both pre-1986 general and product liability occurrence coverage and post-1985 occurrence reported product liability and other environmental coverage for environmental matters and litigation. Various factors could affect the timing and amount of insurance recoveries, including (i) delays in or avoidance of payment by insurers; (ii) the extent to which insurers may become insolvent in the future, (iii) the outcome of negotiations with insurers; and (iv) the scope of the insurers' purported defenses and exclusions to avoid coverage. During 2024, the Company recorded $27 million in insurance recovery benefits related to the environmental matters and litigation and the Company's efforts to cover a portion of the environmental liabilities continues.

## Other Regulatory Matters

In May 2023, an incident at a Company facility in Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin resulted in an employee fatality. The United States Department of Labor's ('DOL') Occupational Safety and Health Administration ('OSHA') began an investigation into the incident and, as reflected by a DOL press release dated November 7, 2023, issued two citations to the Company for alleged willful safety violations. In September 2024, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with OSHA and the DOL related to the incident, which included an immaterial payment amount. The settlement agreement did not include a finding of willful safety violations in connection with the incident. In October 2024, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Western District of Wisconsin seeking records related to, among other things, the Prairie du Chien facility, records related to the incident, and other injuries that have occurred at Prairie du Chien and other 3M facilities, and OSHA safety inspections conducted at other 3M facilities. The Company is cooperating and providing information responsive to the subpoena.

## Product Liability Litigation

## Combat Arms Earplugs Litigation and Insurance Recoveries

Aearo Technologies sold Dual-Ended Combat Arms - Version 2 Earplugs starting in about 1999. 3M acquired Aearo Technologies in 2008 and sold these earplugs from 2008 through 2015, when the product was discontinued. 3M and Aearo Technologies believe the Combat Arms Earplugs were effective and safe when used properly, but nevertheless, as discussed below, prior to the CAE Settlement (as defined below), Aearo Technologies and certain of its related entities (collectively, the "Aearo Entities") and 3M faced litigation from a significant number of claimants.

In August 2023, 3M and the Aearo Entities entered into a settlement arrangement (as amended, the 'CAE Settlement') which is structured to promote participation by claimants and is intended to resolve, to the fullest extent possible, all litigation and alleged claims involving the Combat Arms Earplugs sold or manufactured by the Aearo Entities and/or 3M, as well as potential future claims.

Pursuant to the CAE Settlement, 3M will contribute up to a total amount of $6.0 billion between 2023 and 2029. The actual amount, payment terms and dates are subject to satisfaction of certain collective participation thresholds claimants must meet and provision to 3M of a full release of claims involving the Combat Arms Earplugs. The CAE Settlement was originally structured to include $5.0 billion in cash consideration and $1.0 billion in 3M common stock. The Company in its sole discretion could have elected to settle the equity portion in cash. In January 2024, 3M and the Aearo Entities amended the settlement to include, among other things, an irrevocable election by 3M to pay cash for the $1 billion in payments that could have been paid either in cash or in stock.

The CAE Settlement provides that 3M does not admit any liability or wrongdoing. As a result of the CAE Settlement, 3M recorded a pre-tax charge of $4.2 billion in the third quarter of 2023. The charge reflected the $5.3 billion pre-tax present value (discounted at an estimated 5.6% interest rate at time consummation) of contributions under the CAE Settlement net of 3M's then-existing accrual of $1.1 billion related to this matter.

--- PAGE 122 ---

## Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

## Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

- a. The Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's 'disclosure controls and procedures' (as defined in the Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
- b. The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Management conducted an assessment of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013). Based on the assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2024, the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective. The Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024.
- c. There was no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company's most recently completed fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

The Company continues to implement new business systems and solutions, including an enterprise resource planning system (ERP), which are expected to improve the efficiency of certain financial and related business processes. These implementations are expected to occur on an on-going basis as opportunities and needs are identified and addressed. The implementations, in certain cases, may affect the processes that constitute the Company's internal control over financial reporting and will require testing for effectiveness.

The Company completed implementation with respect to various processes/sub-processes in certain subsidiaries/locations, including aspects relative to the United States, and will continue the implementations over the next several years. As with any new information technology application the Company implements, these applications, along with the internal control over financial reporting included in these processes, were appropriately considered within the testing for effectiveness with respect to the implementation in these instances. The Company concluded, as part of its evaluation described in the above paragraphs, that the implementation in these circumstances has not materially affected its internal control over financial reporting.

In connection with the Separation, there were several processes, policies, operations, technologies and information systems that were transferred or separated. Through December 31, 2024, the Company continued to take steps to ensure that adequate controls were designed and maintained throughout this transition period.

## Item 9B. Other Information

Insider Trading Arrangements and Policies

During the quarter ended December 31, 2024, no director or officer of the Company adopted or terminated a 'Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement' or 'non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement,' as each term is defined in Item 408(a) of Regulation S-K.

Disclosure Under Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012

The Company is making the following disclosure under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act:

Protection of Intellectual Property Rights in Iran Pursuant to Specific License

As part of its  intellectual  property  ('IP')  protection  efforts,  3M  has  obtained  and  maintains  patents  and  trademarks  in  Iran. Periodically, 3M pays renewal fees, through third-party IP service providers/counsel, to the Iran Intellectual Property Office ('IIPO') for these patents and trademarks and has sought to prosecute and defend such trademarks. On February 28, 2024, the Office of Foreign Assets Control ('OFAC') renewed 3M's specific license to make payments to IIPO at its account in Bank Melli, which was designated on November 5, 2018 by OFAC under its counter terrorism authority pursuant to Executive Order 13224.  3M  did  not  make  any  covered  payments  in  the  quarter  ended  December  31,  2024,  and,  as  authorized  by  OFAC's specific license, 3M previously reported an aggregate paid $412 as part of its intellectual property protection efforts in Iran. 3M plans to continue these IP rights protection activities, as authorized under the specific license.

## Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Not applicable

--- PAGE 123 ---

## PART III

## Documents Incorporated by Reference

In response to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14, parts of the Company's definitive proxy statement (to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant's fiscal year-end of December 31, 2024) for its annual meeting to be held on May 13, 2025, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.

## Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information relating to directors and nominees of 3M is set forth under the caption 'Proposal No. 1' in 3M's proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 13, 2025 ('3M Proxy Statement') and is incorporated by reference herein. Information about executive officers is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information required by Items 405, 407(c)(3), 407(d)(4), 407(d)(5) and 408(b) of Regulation S-K is contained under the captions 'Corporate governance at 3M - Board membership criteria - Identification, evaluation, and selection of nominees,' '-Shareholder nominations - shareholder recommendations,' '-Shareholder nominations - advance notice bylaw,' 'Shareholder nominations - universal proxy rules,' '-Shareholder nominations - proxy access,' 'Corporate governance at 3M - Board committees - Audit Committee' and "Corporate governance at 3M - - Board membership criteria - Securities trading policies" of the 3M Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.

Code of Ethics. All of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, are required to abide by 3M's long-standing business conduct policies to ensure that our business is conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. 3M has posted the text of such code of ethics on its website (https:// www.3M.com/3M/en\_US/ethics-compliance). At the same website, any future amendments to the code of ethics will also be posted. Any person may request a copy of the code of ethics, at no cost, by writing to us at the following address:

3M Company

3M Center, Building 220-11W-09

St. Paul, MN 55144-1000

Attention: Senior Vice President, 3M Ethics &amp; Compliance

## Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is contained under the captions 'Executive compensation' (excluding the information under the caption '- Compensation and Talent Committee report') and 'Director compensation' and 'Stock retention requirement' of the 3M Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated by reference.

The information required by Items 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K is contained in the Executive compensation section under the captions 'Compensation and Talent Committee report' and 'Compensation and Talent Committee interlocks and insider participation' of the 3M Proxy Statement. Such information (other than the Compensation and Talent Committee Report, which shall not be deemed to be 'filed') is incorporated by reference.

--- PAGE 124 ---

## Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is set forth under the captions 'Security ownership of management' and 'Security ownership of certain beneficial owners' in the 3M Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.

Equity compensation plans information as of December 31, 2024 follows:

| Equity Compensation Plans Information (1) Plan Category (options and shares in thousands)   | A Number of securities to be upon exercise outstanding warrants rights   | B Weighted- average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights   | C Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (A))   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Equity compensation plans approved by security holders                                      |                                                                          |                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                 |
| Stock options                                                                               | 32,523                                                                   | $ 150.50                                                                         | -                                                                                                                                               |
| Restricted stock units                                                                      | 6,150                                                                    |                                                                                  | -                                                                                                                                               |
| Performance shares                                                                          | 782                                                                      |                                                                                  | -                                                                                                                                               |
| Non-employee director deferred stock units                                                  | 230                                                                      |                                                                                  | -                                                                                                                                               |
| Total                                                                                       | 39,685                                                                   |                                                                                  | 21,316                                                                                                                                          |
| Employee stock purchase plan                                                                | -                                                                        |                                                                                  | 18,247                                                                                                                                          |
| Subtotal                                                                                    | 39,685                                                                   |                                                                                  | 39,563                                                                                                                                          |
| Total                                                                                       | 39,685                                                                   |                                                                                  | 39,563                                                                                                                                          |

(1) In column B, the weighted-average exercise price is only applicable to stock options. In column C, the number of securities remaining available for future issuance for stock options, restricted stock units, and stock awards for non-employee directors is approved in total and not individually with respect to these items.

## Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

With respect to certain relationships and related transactions as set forth in Item 404 of Regulation S-K, no matters require disclosure with respect to transactions with related persons. The information required by Item 404(b) and Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K is contained under the captions 'Corporate governance at 3M - Board membership criteria - Director independence,' and 'Corporate governance at 3M - Corporate governance practices and policies - Related person transaction policy and procedures' of the 3M Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.

## Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information relating to principal accounting fees and services is set forth in the section entitled 'Audit committee matters' under the designation 'Audit committee policy on pre-approval of audit and permissible non-audit services of the independent accounting firm' and 'Fees of the independent accounting firm' in the 3M Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.