Feasibility
===========
===========


Project Feasibility Analysis
--------------------------------
Corporate Sustainability Reports (CSRs) have emerged as the primary vehicle for Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosures, yet over 90% of these critical documents remain trapped in unstructured PDF formats (KPMG, 2022). Due to structural limitations, quantitative analysis faces three notable operational challenges. First, manual extraction workflows significantly delay the timely publication of quarterly ESG dashboards. Second, reliance on human copy-paste operations introduces inevitable transcription errors, undermining data verifiability. Third, inconsistent definitions of key performance indicators (KPIs) across industries hinder comparability (McKinsey & Company, 2023).
To address these issues, this project develops and deploys a fully automated pipeline. The solution ingests CSR PDF reports from a MinIO object store, extracts both structured quantitative metrics and narrative disclosures, and standardizes the information into a unified schema within MongoDB. This approach ensures the auditability of the entire data lineage and significantly improves the efficiency, accuracy, and consistency of CSR data analysis.
Building on foundational work in constructing a scalable data lake architecture for CSR report aggregation, this phase advances the technical framework by operationalizing a fully automated data product. Where prior efforts focused on resolving the ‘collection gap’ through intelligent web crawlers and metadata-indexed storage in MinIO, the current system targets the ‘extraction gap’ through machine learning-driven content parsing. The pipeline eliminates manual intervention by integrating layout recognition models to extract tabular ESG metrics, natural language processing (NLP) modules to categorize narrative disclosures, and schema validation engines to enforce data consistency.
The solutio’s design directly confronts industry-specific pain points. By automating the transformation of PDF-based CSR data into structured MongoDB documents, it ensures timeliness through near-real-time processing, verifiability via embedded data quality checks at ingestion, and comparability through canonical schema mapping aligned with global reporting standards. A critical innovation lies in the bidirectional traceability between raw PDFs in MinIO and processed data in MongoDB, allowing analysts to audit any derived ESG metric back to its source context - an essential capability for regulatory compliance and stakeholder trust.